3D Printed Electronic Circuits from Fusible Alloys
by Bartlomiej Podsiadly, Liubomir Bezgan and Marcin Sloma
https://www.mdpi.com/2079-9292/11/22/3829
Abstract
This work aims to evaluate the possibility of fabricating conductive paths for printed circuit boards from low-temperature
melting metal alloys on low-temperature 3D printed substrates and mounting through-hole electronic components
using the fused deposition modeling for metals (FDMm) for structural electronics applications. The conductive materials are
flux-cored solder wires Sn60Pb40 and Sn99Ag0.3Cu0.7. The deposition was achieved with a specially adapted nozzle.
A comparison of solder wires with and without flux cores is discussed to determine whether the solder alloys exhibit
adequate wettability and adhesion to the polymer substrate. The symmetrical astable multivibrator circuit based on
bipolar junction transistors (BJT) was fabricated to demonstrate the possibility of simultaneous production of conductive
tracks and through-hole mountings with this additive technique. Additional perspectives for applying this technique to
3D-printed structural electronic circuits are also discussed.
Keywords: structural electronics; 3D printed electronics; fused deposition modeling; fusible alloys

1. Introduction
Structural electronics is a term describing electrical and electronic components and circuits that act as construction
elements, casings, or other types of protective dumb structures, such as vehicle bodies, and are embedded inside the
volume of an element or conformally placed on the surface. Due to the possibility of enhancing product functionality,
lowering production costs, or providing the opportunity for the fabrication of consumer-tailored devices, structural
electronics is an interesting new branch of technology for ordinary production methods used in aerospace and military
applications, home appliances, consumer electronics, the automotive industry, and civil engineering. A catchy example
of structural electronics is the new Saint Anthony Falls Bridge in Minnesota, US, called America’s smartest bridge [1].
The previous one collapsed in 2007, so the new one is stuffed with sensors monitoring its condition. The TactoTek
company introduced a complete production chain from design to fabrication of fully functional injection molded and
structural electronics using DuPont conductive materials [2]. Ford introduced an overhead control cluster fabricated with
in-mold electronics in the automotive industry, saving up to 40 % in weight/space/cost and increasing reliability [3].